# Week 1: Install Windows 10 in VMWare
## General Information

For this assignment, you will install the operating system Windows 10 as a virtual machine (VM) using VMWare Workstation. 

For the grade, you will upload an image proving your VMWindows works.
It is recommended that your instructor guide you through the first nine steps, then complete the lab with help as needed. The report should be submitted the day the lab is completed.

-	Before you start go to your V: drive and navigate to the VM folder.  
    -	If there is NO VM folder, create one.
-	Inside the folder right click and select new folder.  
-	Create a folder with your student ID number.  
-	Go inside your newly created folder and create a sub-folder named Windows10.
-	This is where you will be storing your VM for this exercise.

## Part 1: We will complete as a group

- [ ]	Choose your physical seat - VMWare is seat-specific and cannot be easily moved. Log in with your studentid to the physical computer.
   
- [ ]	Search for and open VMware Workstation (Right-click and choose Open).
   
- [ ]	Choose "Create a New Virtual Machine". Then choose “Typical”.
   
- [ ]	Choose "Installer disc image file (iso)” and navigate to the V: drive, new-iso folder,  Windows Workstation and the last choice for Windows 10. We will give you more guidance here, as it may vary from classroom to classroom. The path is most likely
    -	V:/ISO;s/Windows 10.iso
    - NOTE: The iso file can be copied from one computer to another, if needed.

- [ ]	Modify the default VM name of "Windows 10 x64” to “Windows 10” and change your save location to the folder you created above. (typically V:/VM/studentid/Windows10”) Click Next

- [ ]	Reduce the maximum disk size to 30 GB Click Next>

- [ ]	Click on Customize Hardware and verify the following: 

    -	RAM (memory) at 2 GB
    -	Change Network Adapter from NAT to Bridged. 
    -	Click Close

- [ ]	Click Finish and let the VMWindows 10 install without locking your physical computer. 

- [ ]	When the screen says to press any key to boot from CD/DVD….Press any key.

- [ ]	You should see the Windows Setup Screen asking the Language, Time and Keyboard. The defaults should be correct. Click Next

- [ ]	Click on the Install now Button

- [ ]	When Windows setup asks for a product key, just press I don’t have a product key at the bottom. 

- [ ]	Select the Operating System of Windows 10 Pro, Click Next

- [ ]	Click the box to accept the license terms and click Next

- [ ]	Choose the Custom Installation (“Custom: Install Windows only (advanced)”)

- [ ]	Where do you want to install windows?  You should see the 30GB hard drive we specified in step 6. Make sure that drive is highlighted and click next

- [ ]	The Windows 10 OS will take about fifteen minutes to install. If it stops due to an error message, alert the instructor

- [ ]	Verify the region, keyboard layout, and Skip the add a second keyboard

- [ ]	Set up for personal use. Click Offline Account in the bottom left corner when asked for an email address. Click on limited experience in the bottom left corner 

- [ ]	Use your studentid as the user name. Add Password1 as the password (don't be creative, for if you forget the password you may have to reinstall the virtual machine!). 

- [ ]	Create 3 security question answers.

- [ ]	Click on Not Now then Accept on the privacy settings

- [ ]	Then press Next and press Skip the Customize and Cortana

- [ ]	If Windows 10 reboots, click on the screen and enter Password1 to log in. 

## Part 2: Students should be able to take it from this step moving forward

- [ ]	Turn off Windows Updates
    - [ ]	First, open Task Manager (right-click the Taskbar and choose it, then “More details”). 
    - [ ]	Select Services tab, locate wuauserv, Right Click, STOP. 
    - [ ]	Next, open Powershell: Right Click on start button and choose Windows PowerShell (Admin)
    - [ ]	Enter the two commands below in Powershell to disable Windows Updates. (You can copy/paste them into VMware. Type exit to close PS.)  
        -	Set-Service -Name “wuauserv” -StartupType Disabled 
        -	Stop-Service wuauserv

- [ ]	Rename your computer
    - [ ]	Right-click the Menu key and choose "System”
    - [ ]	then click "Rename this PC"
    - [ ]	change the name to  “W10-firstsixlettersofyourstudentID" Example "W10-johsmi" 
    - [ ]	click Next. 
    - [ ]	Then follow the prompts to restart your VM.

- [ ]	Log in again with your student id and Password1. 
- [ ]	On the Desktop, right-click and choose “New – Folder” and name it after your studentID. This studentID folder should appear in various screenshots to identify the computer – and the screenshot - as yours.

- [ ]	On your physical (host) computer: Open a new Word document and add your name, date, and  “Install Windows 10  in VMWare” to the top of the first page.  

- [ ]	On your virtual (guest) computer): In the search bar type cmd, choose Command Prompt. 

- [ ]	In the command line interface, enter color F0 (F Zero) to change the background to white with black letters. 

- [ ]	Then enter hostname  and then ipconfig to show the computer name, the IPv4 Address, the Subnet Mask, and the Default Gateway. 

- [ ]	Take a screenshot showing the command line window with the hostname and ipconfig information then paste it in the report.

- [ ]	Please shut down the VM (left-click the Windows menu key Power then choose “shut down – shut down”). A VM can also be suspended, but it should NOT be running when you log off your physical computer (the host) at the end of class, or it might get corrupted. 

- [ ]	Get an image of your VM settings: In VMWare Workstation, click on VM – Settings to show a large panel called “Virtual Machine Settings”. Take the screenshot

- [ ]	Save your report (with 2 screenshots) as Install-Win10-VM-yourstudentid as a Word document, then export it (or Save as) to PDF and upload on Canvas for the grade. 

