# Week 2: Install Software in VM Windows
## General Information
To understand how to install and remove software in a standard Windows computer in VMWare. 

For this lab, you will install the web browsers Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox. Then you will install Adobe Acrobat Reader, Notepad++, and CPU-Z (a utility that examines the hardware of the computer). All are free and all have a different set of steps to install. The lab will be graded on four screenshots. 

You will need: 
-	Access to VMWare software, with a Windows 10 VM already installed
-	Administrator privileges
-	This was a seat-specific installation completed in your 1.2 Assignment. 

## Instructions
1. Open your VM Windows10 and log in as your studentid user.
   - If not already there, create a folder on your VM Desktop and name it after your studentID. 
   -	NOTE: All screenshots MUST include this studentID folder in the image to provide a unique signature of ownership! Avoid full-screen images, please; use WindowsKey-Shift-S to take selective screenshots. 

2.	Type in Control in the search to go to Control Panel, then locate Programs and Features in Control Panel. 
    -	Search installed programs and take a screenshot of the programs currently installed
    - Place it in the Deliverables section, at the end of this report, where it says  ```Screenshot 1: Pre-lab installed programs (and my Desktop folder)```

3.	Open Microsoft Edge and confirm you can go online. 
    -	If Edge is not installed right-click the Windows Menu key and choose “Run” and enter the command IExplore. 
    -	Internet Explorer should open and will prompt you to install Edge. 
    -	Install Edge, but do NOT sync, sign in, nor import data to ANY web browser! 
    - **NOTE: Some VMWindows will come with Edge pre-installed.**

4.	Once you can go online with Edge, search for the Google Chrome web browser software and download it. 
    - **NOTE: Download is not the same as “Install”!**
    -	Best practice: Open the File Explorer, open the Download folder, right-click the file you downloaded and choose “Run as administrator”. 

5.	Open Google Chrome and install and open Mozilla Firefox software. Make Chrome your default browser (search for Default and follow the instructions).

6.	Install CPU-Z from the website https://www.cpuid.com/softwares/cpu-z.html or https://www.techpowerup.com/download/cpu-z/ (You can search for the software rather than type the hyperlink.) 
    -	Locate the correct 32bit download and be sure to pick the proper link (don’t install unnecessary software). 
    -	You may need to cancel and then look in Downloads for the file, then Run as Administrator.  
    -	Start the CPU-Z program to show the type of motherboard, RAM, BIOS, and CPU you are using (which are all virtual).  
    -	Click on mainboard tab and the image in the Deliverables section where it says ```Screenshot 2: CPU-Z Mainboard tab (and my Desktop folder).```

7.	Install Adobe Acrobat Reader. 
    -	Use Google Chrome and search for “Free Adobe Reader”; it will most likely direct you to https://get.adobe.com/reader/ .   
    -	Download and install ONLY Adobe Acrobat. Avoid installing MacAfee or any other unwanted software! 
    -	Open it after installing. 

8.	Locate and install Notepad++ (latest 64-bit version, most likely from https://notepad-plus-plus.org/downloads/ ) (turn on “shortcut” choice). 
    -	Notepad++ is a free text and source code editor for use with Microsoft Windows. It supports tabbed editing, which allows working with multiple open files in a single window. It can be used to edit source code for web pages or even for Python programs. 
    -	If you forgot, add a Desktop shortcut to Notepad++ : Right-click Desktop – New – Shortcut – Browse – ThisPC – C: - Program Files – Notepad++ - Notepad++ 

9.	Take a screenshot of your current VMWindows Desktop to show what you installed, and place it in the Deliverables section under ```Screenshot 3: My Desktop with Programs Added```

10.	Programs, apps and software should NEVER be “deleted”; they must be uninstalled. Uninstall the Notepad++ software. 
    -	Return to Control – Programs- “Programs and Features” and select Notepad++ and choose “Uninstall”.  
    -	Be sure to remove any shortcuts that remain. 
    -	Take a screenshot of the programs currently installed in “Programs and Features”, and place it in the Deliverables section where it says ```Screenshot 4: Post-lab installed programs (and my Desktop folder)```

## Deliverables:
-	Screenshot 1: Pre-lab installed programs (and my Desktop folder)
-	Screenshot 2: CPU-Z Mainboard tab (and my Desktop folder)
-	Screenshot 3: My Desktop with Programs Added (and my Desktop folder)
-	Screenshot 4: Post-lab installed programs (and my Desktop folder)

