# Week 4: Networking and Remote Tools in VM-Windows
## General Information Objective:
Work with some hands-on Networking in a Windows environment using either VMware or VCastle.

You will need:
- Access to VMWare software, with a Windows 10 VM already installed, with their username (studentID) with administrator privileges.
- This was a seat-specific installation completed in an earlier lesson.

## Instructions:
### Prepping the Lab
1. Sign in to the Windows 10 as your studentID user, password Password1.
   - If asked, make the computer DISCOVERABLE.
   - Confirm the following settings.
     - In VMWare, right click the Windows 10 tab.
     - Choose Settings.
     - The network adapter should be set to “bridged”
     - The firewall should be “off” (Both occurred in a previous lab).
       - If you are having trouble with pinging in task 5 below, revisit the previous lab to ensure that both the domain, public and private firewall profiles are off.
       - Hint: Start->Windows Administrative Tools->Windows Firewall with Advanced Security.
       - Click on Windows Firewall Properties.
   
2. Clone your VM:
   - After signing on again, shut down the VM Windows10 but keep VMWare running.
   - You should be on the page for your VM Windows10.
   - Click on the first “clock” icon to take a “snapshot”. (alternative: From Menu bar, Click on VM->Snapshot).
   - Accept the name Snapshot 1. (A snapshot is a copy of a system’s settings)
   - Next, click the third clock” (the one with blue wrench)
     - “Snapshot Manager” window opens. Choose “Clone...”
   - Now, choose “Next” on the first panel, then CHANGE the selection to “An existing snapshot (powered off only)” and choose Next.
   - Choose “Created a linked clone”. (Linked clones are a copy of an existing system that can be individually configured)
   - Note the network path location. If it is set to your documents on ‘OneDrive’ you will need to change it. To do that, ‘browse’ to the VM folder (I:,G:,V: etc.) on your local machine.
     - This will prevent poor Internet connections from interrupting the lab.
     - If you receive a warning about a duplicate folder location, you can add a new folder inside your existing folder.
     - Call it PC2 to distinguish the folder name.
   - Click Finish. It will make a copy of your VMWindows instantly!
   - Choose Close and close the Snapshot Manager and you should see a new tab that starts with Clone.
   - Rename what VMWare calls these machines.
     - In VMWare from the left menu, right click the first Windows10 VM and select ‘Rename’.
     - Change it to PC1-‘yourstudentID’.
     - For the ‘Clone Window 10’, rename it PC2-‘yourstudentID’.
     - Note that this did not change the computer name, only what VMWare knows them as.
     - The next task will be to change the machine names.

3. Your host computer now has two VMWindows10 guest computers. You will now need to change the name of the Windows 10 machines.
   - You can use StartSettings or Powershell to change the names; (as covered in a previous lab).
   - In these instructions: These will be referred as PC1 and PC2, going forward.
   - Rename your two computers:
     - Rename the first computer PC1-sixlettersstudentID (Example PC1-johsmi).
     - Rename the second computer PC2-sixlettersstudentID (Example PC2-johsmi).
       
### Testing a Computer Connection
4. On PC1: Open the command prompt in regular mode and confirm it has already been set to a legible background and foreground color combination and bold large font (completed in an earlier lab).
   - Type in IPCONFIG and note your IPv4 address
   - Type in hostname to confirm the name is correct.
   - Type in whoami to confirm who is signed in and the computer name.
   - Keep the command line open for the remainder of the lab.
   - Repeat these steps for PC2 and CHANGE the command line color combination to make them easy to tell apart.
   - Type in CLS at any time to clear the command line screen.
   - Enter ipconfig on PC1 and PC2 to see their IPv4 address, subnet mask, and Default Gateway.
   - Make a mental note of any differences and similarities between them.
     
**Screenshot 1: the results of hostname and ipconfig on PC1. Place under the appropriate label in the Deliverables section.**

5. From the Command line, “Ping” the two VMWindows to confirm they are networked as follows:
   - Ping IPaddress (example: ping 10.90.10.243)
   - Ping computername on both computers. In other words, ping PC1 from PC2 and vice-versa.
   - Troubleshoot if needed; for example, Network Discovery has to be turned on.

6. The IPv6 hex address appears when you ping computername, so we will shut that off. Modify the Network Adapter to turn off the IPv6 service:
   - Right-click the Menu key, Network Connections, right-click the ethernet adapter, Properties, and then uncheck the box “TCP/IPv6”) on both PC1 and PC2.
   - Try ping computername again; you should see the IPv4 decimal address now.
   
**Screenshot 2: the results of whoami and ping PC1studentid on PC2. Place under the appropriate label in the Deliverables section.**

### Folder and File Sharing
7. On PC1:
   - Right click on the desktop space.
   - Select New -> Folder.
   - Name it Best-PC1.
   - Open the folder.
   - Right click to create a new text document called Best.
   - Open the file.
   - Type the following “ECPI is the best decision I’ve ever made!”
   - Save and close the file.
     
8. Share the folder:
   - Right-click the Best-PC1 folder.
   - Select Properties
   - then select the tab ‘Sharing’.
   - Click on ‘Advanced Sharing’
   - Check the box ‘Share this folder’. (If you do it other ways you may inadvertently share your entire Users folder!)
   - **On PC2: **
     - Right click the Start button to Open File Explorer
     - scroll to the network and you should see the PC1 in "Network"
     - click and open it and you should see “Best-PC1”. (note the green “pipe” – it’s a network shared folder).
     - Open the Best text document and move the window down so that you can see the path Network -> PC1-studentID -> Best-PC1.
     - Note: if you are unable to see the shared folder, doublecheck to see if you changed the computer names for PC1 and PC2 (not just the VMWare folder names)
       
**Screenshot 3: contents of the shared Best document showing the network path (accessed from PC2). Place under the appropriate label in the Deliverables section**

9. **Go to PC2.**  
   - Right click on Start and select RUN.
   - Type in a double backward ( \\ ) and wait a moment.
   - The ‘Run’ line should find and list both computer names.
   - Choose PC1.
   - Add a single backward slash ( \ ) to the end of the name in the Run box.
   - The full Universal Naming Convention (UNC) path name should appear. It will resemble the following syntax (\\computername\sharename) such as: Open: \\PC1\Best-PC1.
   - You can open a UNC from the Run line. No screenshot required. Experiment with this.
     
### Allowing Remote Assistance to a Computer

10. On PC1
    - right click Start, then System, or System -> Remote Settings. (You may have to choose Advanced system settings first; look for Remote)
    - Turn on “Allow remote assistance to this computer”.
    - Below that, in the Remote Desktop box, choose the button for “Allow remote connection to this computer”.
    - Check the box to ‘Allow connections only from computers running Remote Desktop...'
    - Choose Apply.
    - Click OK.
    - Leave the main System window open.
      
11. Switch to PC2
    - type in mstsc in the search line to open the “Remote Desktop Connection” window.
    - Login.
    - Type in the exact name of PC1 in the Computer window and add your username and password, then choose “Connect”.
    - The “Windows Security” window will appear with “Enter your credentials”.
    - By default, you will be granted permission since you are the original user.
    - To complete the connection click “Yes”.
    - PC1’s desktop with System open should appear on PC2.
    - Troubleshoot as needed.
    - Note that if you create or delete a folder, it will be created or deleted on PC1 (the remote computer).
    - Note that PC1’s screen is locked when Remote Desktop is running. 
    - Select PC1 (VM Tab). 
    - Type in the password to break the Remote Desktop connection.
      
**Screenshot 4: Image of Remote Desktop running on PC2 with PC1 visible in the blue bar at the top of the Desktop. Place under the appropriate label in the Deliverables section**

12. Confirm you have all four screenshots saved below in the Deliverables section.
13. Save and close your PC1 and PC2 before exiting VMWare.
14. Upload this document as a PDF.
    
## Deliverables:
- [ ] Screenshot 1: hostname and ipconfig on PC1:
- [ ] Screenshot 2: whoami and ping PC1computername from PC2:
- [ ] Screenshot 3: contents of the shared Best document showing the network path. (accessed from PC2).
- [ ] Screenshot 4: Image of Remote Desktop running on PC2 with PC1 reached
